The problem is now clear. Do NOT treat this as a scope-classifier problem and do NOT compare request semantics again.

The actual problem is MESSAGE/CONTEXT ATTACHMENT.

Current working behavior:
When I press the English "Explain this Ayah" button, the selected Ayah is correctly posted/attached to the Quran Assistant conversation, and the Assistant answers using that Ayah.

Current broken behavior:
When I manually type an Urdu question in the Composer and press Send, ONLY the Composer text is posted to the conversation. The selected Ayah is NOT attached/posted with that Composer turn.

This is the bug that must be fixed.

EXACT REQUIRED BEHAVIOR:

Quran Reader:
Selected Ayah = Surah Al-Anfaal, Ayah 2

Open Quran Assistant.

The selected Ayah is shown in "ABOUT THIS AYAH".

Then the user types in Composer:

"اس کی وضاحت کریں"

When the user presses the Composer Send button:

The resulting conversation turn MUST contain:

USER QUESTION:
"اس کی وضاحت کریں"

ATTACHED AYAH CONTEXT:
Surah Al-Anfaal · Ayah 2
+ exact verified Arabic
+ exact verified translation

The Assistant must therefore understand that "اس" refers to the selected Ayah.

IMPORTANT:

The selected Ayah must be attached to the SAME user conversation turn as the Composer question.

It must NOT be:
- a separate user message;
- a separate POST;
- a separate AI request;
- pasted into the Composer;
- hidden text inserted into the visible question.

Think of it as:

User turn:
{
  question: "اس کی وضاحت کریں",
  ayahContext: selectedAyah
}

NOT:

User message 1:
"Al-Anfaal 2"

User message 2:
"اس کی وضاحت کریں"

The English "Explain this Ayah" button already demonstrates the correct way the selected Ayah is attached to the conversation. USE THAT WORKING IMPLEMENTATION as the source of truth.

Do NOT create a new parallel implementation.

Instead, inspect exactly what the Explain-this-Ayah button does when it successfully posts/attaches the Ayah.

Then make Composer Send call the SAME underlying attachment/conversation mechanism, while keeping the Composer's actual question as the user text.

The two actions should effectively be:

Explain this Ayah:
postUserTurn(
  question = "Explain this Ayah",
  ayahContext = selectedAyah
)

Composer Send:
postUserTurn(
  question = composerText,
  ayahContext = selectedAyah
)

The ONLY difference is the question text.

CRITICAL:
If the current code already has a working function that creates/stores/posts a user turn with Ayah context for "Explain this Ayah", reuse that function.

Do NOT make another separate Ayah POST.

Do NOT merely pass ayahContext through an API type if the conversation storage/rendering layer does not actually attach it to the user turn.

Trace the complete conversation state:

selected Ayah
→ pending Ayah context
→ Composer Send
→ user message creation
→ conversation storage
→ API request
→ server context
→ AI prompt
→ assistant response
→ stored conversation turn

Find the exact point where Composer Send creates the user message WITHOUT the Ayah context.

Fix that exact point.

IMPORTANT ACCEPTANCE TEST:

Use this exact scenario:

Selected Ayah:
Surah Al-Anfaal · Ayah 2

Composer:
"اس کی وضاحت کریں"

Press Send ONCE.

Expected result:

1. ONE visible user message:
   "اس کی وضاحت کریں"

2. That user turn has the selected Ayah context attached internally.

3. ONE API request.

4. That request contains:
   question = "اس کی وضاحت کریں"
   ayahContext = Al-Anfaal 2

5. Server uses that Ayah context.

6. Assistant gives an actual answer about Al-Anfaal 2.

7. No generic:
   "میں قرآن سے متعلق سوالات میں مدد..."
   response.

8. No separate Ayah message appears.

9. No second request.

10. No duplicate usage count.

11. After successful response, the pending "ABOUT THIS AYAH" state can clear, but the Ayah remains attached to the completed conversation turn.

Also verify that the following work the same way:

"اس آیت کی وضاحت کریں"
"اس کا مطلب کیا ہے؟"
"اس آیت کے بارے میں بتائیں"

WITHOUT hardcoding these sentences.

IMPORTANT:
The English Explain-this-Ayah button is already working. Do NOT modify or break it.

The fix must make the Composer use the SAME working conversation/attachment mechanism.

Do NOT make unrelated changes.

Before declaring success, add a regression test that proves:

Composer Send + selected Ayah
= one user turn containing question + ayahContext
= one API request
= one usage count.

The test must inspect the actual stored/submitted user turn and actual request body, not just the UI card.

Run typechecks, focused regression tests, and production builds after the fix.

Do NOT build an APK yet.